---
layout: post
title: "Exoplanets: Training classification ML models"
categories: [Machine Learning]
image: /assets/img/exoplanets.jpg
---
# Schuldiner's Numbers: I Built a Data Dashboard for Death's Entire Discography
May 13th is Chuck Schuldiner's birthday. And if you know, you know — Chuck wasn't just a musician. He was the architect of an entire genre, the guy who almost single-handedly dragged metal into places it had never been before. So this year, instead of just putting on Symbolic and staring at the ceiling (which I also did), I built something: a fully interactive analytics dashboard covering Death's complete studio discography. Consider it a love letter written in Python.

The project started simple enough — pull some data, make some charts, feel good about it. But anyone who's worked with music APIs knows they have a personality of their own. Between Spotify, Last.fm, MusicBrainz, and AcousticBrainz, I was juggling four different sources, each with their own quirks, gaps, and opinions on what counts as an "official release." Remastered editions pretending to be originals. Compilation tracks sneaking into tracklists. I had to build custom cleaning logic just to keep things honest. The rule was simple: 7 studio albums, 62 songs, nothing else. No compilations, no demos, no bonus disc filler. Just the canon — from Scream Bloody Gore (1987) all the way to The Sound of Perseverance (1998).
Once the data was clean, the fun started. The dashboard — built with Streamlit and Plotly — lets you explore the full discography in a way that actually feels alive. You can trace the band's evolution through a release timeline, see how BPM and track duration shifted as Chuck's songwriting got more progressive and technically ambitious, and compare listener counts and playcounts across albums to see which records the internet still obsesses over (spoiler: Symbolic and Individual Thought Patterns are doing numbers). There's track-level filtering and ranking, so you can surface the longest, fastest, or most-streamed songs in the catalogue, and a head-to-head album comparison tool for when you want hard data to settle a debate about whether Human or Leprosy was the bigger leap forward.

As a BA, this kind of project sits right in the sweet spot of what I love — taking messy, scattered information and turning it into something clear, navigable, and actually useful. The domain being Death's discography just made it a whole lot more meaningful. Chuck left behind 11 years of recorded work that keeps pulling in new listeners decades later, and spending time this close to that catalogue — track by track, BPM by BPM — reminded me exactly why. Happy birthday, Chuck. The legacy is very much intact.

{% include share.html %}


